---
title: "APS112: Engineering Strategies and Practice II"
categories:
  - Courses
tags:
  - university
---
**Course Description:**<br>
This was a 1st year course focused on teaching students about the engineering design process. I was part of a multidisciplinary group with the goal of spending the semester working on a design project for a given client. Deliverables included a Project Requirements document, and a Final Design Specifications document. The course culminated in a presentation of our group’s proposed design to peers, professors, and markers.

**Project Description:**<br>
Our client was the organization, Multidisciplinary Analytical Kinesthetic Education (M.A.K.E.). An affiliated University of Toronto Engineering club, they designed and hosted events throughout the year targeting first year students. They challenge students with mini projects that cover engineering concepts, with the aim of helping students to understand them better. Our challenge was to design a mini project that M.A.K.E could use at an event. Our group ended up designing an event focused on creating a diode bridge rectifier - directly based on concepts utilized in the first year electrical and computer engineering course, ECE110. 

**Reflection:**<br>
It was an opportunity to apply not only apply the material learned from APS112 in order to complete each deliverable, but the very nature of the project meant it was also a chance to reflect on my own understanding of other 1st year courses. It was also another great experience of working within a team setting. Finally the design nature of the course helped build the foundation of my knowledge that I once again applied during my 4th year Capstone course.

**Testimony:**
> “Raised discussion on issues in documents, to generate new ideas, and awareness for situation. Completed tasks on time and tried to assist others. Always trying to make sure that our documents not only had what was required but tried to push the quality by asking the T.A where we could improve or if we were doing something right.”
> <cite>Peer</cite>
