---
title: "Design Showcase and Final Meeting"
categories:
  - Courses
tags:
  - university
  - capstone
---
The culminating deliverable of our project was participating in the course’s showcase event. A team member had created a poster that summarized our work and we had 15 minutes to present our design to an audience, this was repeated 4 times for 4 different audiences. 

For the showcase, I had about 2 minutes to speak to our design process in terms of the project requirements and design proposal deliverables. This meant I had to think about the audience in terms of what content mattered most to conveying the progression of our design while also keeping it interesting. As the showcase was done over Zoom, it was a good chance to focus on my oral skills as with our video screens were small, therefore the audience needed to be drawn in by my voice. The presentations went well, and all the audiences seemed interested in our work, and satisfied in our answers to their questions. 

Finally, our team decided to conduct an additional final meeting with our client and project supervisor to review our final design and highlight the improvements we had made since the design review. It was another opportunity to further practice and improve both my presentation and PowerPoint skills.  Ultimately, we received positive feedback and it was a satisfying conclusion to our year-long project. However, I’m not done yet, please read about my overall [thoughts and reflection on my experience completing this project.](https://naveedfarahani.github.io/courses/reflection)

