---
title: "Project Requirements"
categories:
  - Courses
tags:
  - university
  - capstone
---
**Summary:**<br>
Following the engineering design process, our team’s first deliverable for the course was the Project Requirements (PR). For this milestone we needed to determine the project’s scope which included understanding the service environment and relevant stakeholders, and detailing the functions, objectives, and constraints of any potential solution.

**My Work:**<br>
My role for the PR was to research and write a part of Service Environment section, focusing on the physical factors. It was initially quite difficult to figure out a starting point – natural disasters are occurring all over the world, how do you effectivity capture such a wide range of environmental characteristics. Fortunately, this was a team effort, and our team was there for one another. I had voiced my concerns about the Service Environment to my teammates and they agreed we needed to be able narrow it down. Others had already ascertained that the most relevant stakeholders were GlobalMedic, and the communities. This helped in thinking about the route that any design would take; it would be in GlobalMedic’s possession, would then need to be transported, and deployed in the community. At this point I gathered information on airplane conditions, general climate data, potential available sources of water, and the physical effects of various natural disasters. By having this data compiled, when we were able to meet with our client it showed that we had done work and they were then able to help by limiting our scope to regions that they had frequented. An excerpt of the written section can be found below.

> The design is expected to operate in an outdoor environment. Conditions such as temperature and precipitation may impair the design’s ability to conduct its primary functions. Impairment can include providing effective human power to the design and operability ranges of potential material and components. Based on the regions that GlobalMedic has previously provided clean water aid, a design may be required to operate in conditions ranging from 9.5°C to 40°C and 0 mm to 7474 mm of total annual precipitation (14). However, per client’s experience, prioritization will be given to ensuring operational capabilities in temperatures above 30°C (14). Annual average temperatures and total precipitation are shown in Figure A1 and Figure A2 found in Appendix A. Considerations of potential future operation locations and climate conditions can also be found in Appendix A.
> <cite>Section 4.1.1 of our Project Requirements</cite>

**My Thoughts:**<br>
Reflecting on the PR deliverable, I think it forced the group and I to really think about our project from the perspective that to create a successful and safe design you need to consider every relevant factor. It was also an opportunity to retrain my brain in thinking in terms of the engineering design process methodology. Furthermore, it was more practice of important research and report writing skills. The PR was the basis for everything we did after…to continue read the [Design Proposal post](https://naveedfarahani.github.io/courses/designprop) next.

